---
source: https://www.conordewey.com/blog/future-of-newsletters/
author: Conor Dewey
published: 2020-08-08
read: 2020-11-28
tags: [to-process]
---

# On the Future of Newsletters

Newsletters are booming (since summer 2019 according to the article)

Substack plays a big role in the trend, as well as coverage by major publications like the Atlantic and the New York Times.

### State of newsletters

Newsletters today are a form of blogging. Success criteria:

- long-form essays
- high-quality writing
- specialized in areas/niches

In particular, they're a new form of the blog+RSS combo. But RSS never really took off.

What changed? **Delivery**

- Social media is crowded and has high vendor lock-in.
- Newsletters are on a standard, open platform. Mailing lists can be moved between providers. **They meet readers where they are** (in their inbox, opened every day)

### Future predictions

- the newsletter space will continue growing
  - social media will amplify long-form content from newsletters and others
  - more paywalled content, people will be more and more used to it
- content discovery is the next challenge
  - similar to the medium homepage, but for newsletter content
  - currently there is curated lists like newsletterstack.com
  - will be best handled by platforms, like Substack (for now it only shows a list of best publishers)
  - will go along with "objective" grades, like subs. count, open rate, engagement. Privacy concerns?
- inboxes will become crowded
  - alternative trade routes to email: Telegram groups, text message, more
    - References [[newsletters-and-alternative-trade-routes]]
    - the medium shapes the message: will encourage shorter content?
  - note: and RSS coming to apps like pocket, for example?
- newsletters will be more than just about consuming content
  - because of the medium (email), readers tend to interact almost real-time, unlike blog posts where it can take longer
  - will become more common for readers to discuss on newsletters, like comments on blog posts
    - ex. Substack has this feature
  - will drive events, online sales, etc. with integrations
    - ex. make it possible to buy merch from the newsletter for support
    - ex. when an issue is sent, generate a chat room where readers can discuss real-time

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[newsletters-and-alternative-trade-routes]: newsletters-and-alternative-trade-routes "Newsletters and Alternative Trade Routes"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
