---
source: http://snarkmarket.com/2010/4890
author: Robin Sloan
published: 2010-01-18
read: 2020-11-27
tags: [to-process]
---

# Stock and Flow

Concept of stock and flow from economics:

- stock: static value, like money in the bank or trees in a forest
- flow: rate of change, like 15$/h

Metaphor for media in the 21st century:

- flow: feed. Constant stream of updates
- stock: durable content that is as interesting in 2 years as it is today. Discovered via search. Spreads slowly but surely

(the above is paraphrased from the article)

?: is search today still stock? I'm guessing that search engines also take some kind of chronological factor into account

> Flow is a treadmill, and you can’t spend all of your time running on the treadmill. Well, you can. But then one day you’ll get off and look around and go: oh man. I’ve got nothing here.

> I’m not saying you should ignore flow! This is no time to hole up and work in isolation, emerging after years with your work in hand. Everybody will go: huh? Who are you?

[[work-in-public]]

flow = audience. stock = products. Flow will support stock

> And the real magic trick is to put them both together. To keep the ball bouncing with your flow—to maintain that open channel of communication—while you work on some kick-ass stock in the background. Sacrifice neither. The hybrid strategy.

[//begin]: # "Autogenerated link references for markdown compatibility"
[work-in-public]: work-in-public "Work in Public"
[//end]: # "Autogenerated link references"
